An important thing to remember about
backtesting is that we're attempting to simulate live trading.
So let's say we have some data from which we construct an Alpha,
and we also have the daily returns data that we use to
realize gains or losses for our portfolio.
If we look at the returns data recorded on Monday,
we can't use data from that same day to construct the Alpha because
we may not actually have that data available until the market closes on that day.
Now, what if we use Monday's data and returns from the next day on Tuesday?
Well, it means that we'd have the data before the market opens on Tuesday.
But it would also assume that we make all our trades instantly
that Tuesday morning in order to realize the returns for Tuesday.
In reality, it takes time to execute a trade.
If you're updating portfolio positions daily,
then you'll also allocate a day to execute your trades.
So a more realistic re-creation of live training would be to expect
a two-day delay between when the data is
received and when the portfolio returns are realized.
This would mean that by the end of Monday,
we'd have the data to run portfolio optimization and choose the ideal positions,
as well as decide how much to trade.
We take the next day,
Tuesday to execute the trades that get us to the desired positions.
Finally, on the day after on Wednesday,
we'd have the desired positions and realize the returns through that day.
In other words, when constructing your backtest,
the data used to determine portfolio positions occurs
two days earlier than the returns that are realized on those portfolio positions.
In general, to make sure that your backtest is being setup properly,
it helps to imagine yourself in
the situation where you're gathering the data on each day,
making trade decisions, executing those trades,
then realizing those returns.
For instance, even though you may know that a certain company is bankrupt today,
your backtest data should still include that stock if
it's testing on a period in which that company was not yet bankrupt.
Another thing you may notice is that we're realizing returns every day,
but we're also executing trades every day.
For example, on Wednesday,
we realized returns based on data received on Monday.
Also on Wednesday, we are executing trades based on data received on Tuesday.
So in live trading,
the portfolio holdings are constantly changing throughout the day,
since trade executions occur every day, throughout the day.
The portfolio holdings on
any given morning will have changed by the end of that same day,
and we can expect this to have
a constant negative impact on the portfolio's expected return.
We can account for this negative impact as part of the estimate of transaction costs,
which we'll learn about in this lesson.